# Calling other smart functions

Smart functions can call other smart functions with the `SmartFunction.call()` method, which returns a promise that resolves to a Jstz [`Response`](/api/response) object.
Here is an example of calling another contract:

```typescript
const targetContract: Address = "KT1L8ZzGDzaXZSTmzHkoF2azQRf7dCAfxtqx";

const response = await SmartFunction.call(
  new Request(`tezos://${targetContract}`, {
    method: "POST",
    body: JSON.stringify({ message: "hello" }),
  }),
);
console.log(await response.json());
```

The URL for the [`Request`](/api/request) object must be `tezos://` followed by the address of a Jstz smart function.
Smart functions cannot call external APIs or Tezos smart contracts directly.
You can set the method in the `Request` object but you cannot set the `Referer` header because it automatically becomes the address of the smart function.

## Errors

Failed calls to smart functions immediately revert all calls that came from that transaction and any side effects they may have had.
For example, assume that a user calls smart function A, which causes function A to call smart function B.
If smart function B throws an uncaught error, all of the calls are reverted, including the original call to function A.

When a chain of calls to smart functions fails in this way, these things happen:

- The storage of each smart function in the chain is set back to what it was before the initial request, like a database rollback.
- The XTZ balance of each smart function is restored to what it was before the initial request.
- Any further requests generated by the smart functions are cancelled.

You can catch errors in smart functions with try/catch blocks just like in ordinary JavaScript/TypeScript.
